# Follow someone else's analysis

From; Yin et al 2021, Exogenous Coronavirus Interacts With Endogenous Retrotransposon in Human Cells

https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC7959850/

## Methods

### RNA-Seq Data Processing
Raw reads were processed with cutadapt v1.16 to perform quality trimming with default parameters except for: quality-cutoff =20, pair-filter=both. To include as many non-uniquely mapped reads as possible, trimmed reads were firstly aligned to human/mouse genome (hg19/mm10) by STAR (v2.5.1b) with default settings including parameters “–outFilterMismatchNmax 10 –winAnchorMultimapmax 2000 –outFilterMultimapNmax 1000”. RSEM was used to calculate FPKM value of genes. The annotation and fasta sequences for consensus transposable element sequences were downloaded from Repbase (version 20.01) (Bao et al., 2015). TEtranscripts program (Jin et al., 2015) with default parameters was used to get counts for transposable elements. Read counts of gene and TE transcripts were normalized by total aligned counts. For RNA-seq alignment of coronavirus genomes, MERS-CoV (NC_019843), SARS-CoV (NC_004718) and SARS-CoV-2 (NC_045512) genomes were downloaded from NCBI, and trimmed reads were aligned to coronavirus genome by STAR (v2.5.1b) using default parameters. To identify potential chimeric transcripts of coronavirus and cellular transcripts from single-end RNA-seq data, 30nt fastq reads from each end were extracted from raw fastq reads and both were aligned to human and SARS-CoV-2 genomes respectively. Non-viral end of the chimeric reads were mapped to consensus transposable element sequences using STAR with parameters “–winAnchorMultimapmax 2000 –outFilterMultimapNmax 1000” to get counts of transposons. Integrative Genomics Viewer (IGV) and UCSC Genome Browser was used for snapshot of transcriptome. R package Deseq2 was used to get differential expressed genes. Metascape was used to visualize functional profiles of genes and gene clusters (Zhou et al., 2019). Graphs were created by R or Excel. Images were organized by Adobe Illustrator.

### Accession Number
RNA sequencing data of coronavirus-infected human lung-derived cells are from GSE122876 (transcriptome of MERS-CoV-infected Calu-3 cells; single-read; MOI 2, treated for 24 h) (Yuan et al., 2019), GSE56192 (transcriptome of MERS-CoV and SARS-CoV infected MRC5 cells; paired-end; MOI 2, treated for 24 h), GSE147507 (transcriptome of SARS-CoV-2 infected A549 cells, Calu-3 cells, and NHBE cells; MOI 2, treated for 24 h) (Blanco-Melo et al., 2020). RNA sequencing data of SARS-CoV-2-infected human intestinal organoids are from GSE149312 (MOI 1, treated for 24 and 60 h, grown in differentiation medium) (Lamers et al., 2020). SARS-CoV-2 infected Calu-3 cells were used to identify chimeric transcripts of coronavirus and cellular RNA. RNA sequencing data of IRF1 knockout and control human hepatocytes infected with hepatitis A virus are from GSE114916. RNA sequencing data of STAT1 knockout and control human HepG2 cells treated by IFN are from GSE98372 (Chen et al., 2017). RNA sequencing data of human tissues and cell types are from GSE83115 (Zhu et al., 2016). RNA sequencing data of human early embryos and embryonic stem cells are from GSE36552 (Yan et al., 2013). RNA sequencing data of 8-cell mouse embryos and adult mouse islet developed from zygotes with injection of sperm tsRNAs from high-fat-diet males are from GSE75544 (Chen et al., 2016).